Summary of JobTread API Main Endpoints

Based on the Pave schema file, this is a comprehensive construction/project management API with 171 schema objects and extensive CRUD operations. 

The API uses a Pave-based architecture (similar to GraphQL) with:

Nested queries with field selection
Pagination support (page, size, nextPage, previousPage)
Filtering (where, expressions)
Sorting (sortBy)
Grouping and aggregations (group, aggs)
Relationship traversal

Here are the main endpoint categories:

#Core Entity Queries
Jobs: job - Main project/job management entity with budget tracking, tasks, documents, and financial data
Accounts: account - Customer/vendor account management
Contacts: contact - Contact information management
Locations: location - Physical location management
Users: user - User accounts and memberships
Organizations: organization - Company/organization management

#Task & Project Management
Tasks: task, taskTemplate, taskType - Task creation, templates, and workflows
Subtasks: Nested task management
Task Assignments: taskAssignment - Assignment and delegation
Task Dependencies: taskDependency - Task ordering and dependencies
Daily Logs: dailyLog - Daily project activity tracking
Workflows: workflow, workflowRun, workflowAction - Automated workflow execution

#Financial Operations
Documents: document, documentTemplate - Invoices, estimates, bills, proposals
Payments: payment, documentPayment - Payment processing and tracking
Cost Tracking: costCode, costGroup, costItem, costType - Budget and cost management
Time Entries: timeEntry - Time tracking for billing

#Files & Media
Files: file, fileTag - Document storage and categorization
Comments: comment, commentFile - Commenting system with file attachments
Line Items: lineItemFile - Files attached to document line items

#Integrations (20+ third-party integrations)
Accounting: qboIntegration, qbdIntegration (QuickBooks Online/Desktop)
Payments: stripeIntegration, plaidIntegration
HR: gustoIntegration
Imaging: eagleviewIntegration, hoverIntegration, rendrIntegration
Communication: slackIntegration, twilioIntegration, nicejobIntegration
Suppliers: homeDepotIntegration, poolcorpIntegration, srsIntegration, qxoIntegration
Construction: companycamIntegration, evoIntegration

#Custom Fields & Configuration
Custom Fields: customField, customFieldValue, customFieldMapping
Units: unit, unitMapping - Measurement units
Dashboards: dashboard, dashboardTile - Custom dashboards
Data Views: dataView - Custom data visualization

#Permissions & Security
ACLs: ace (Access Control Entries)
Roles: role, roleType - Role-based access control
Grants: grant - Permission grants
Permissions: can, whoCan - Permission checking queries

#Events & Notifications
Events: event, eventType - System event tracking
Notifications: notification, notificationSubscription
Webhooks: webhook - External webhook integrations
Custom Notifications: customNotificationType

#Forms & Data Collection
Web Forms: webForm - Customer-facing forms
Survey Responses: surveyResponse
Feature Requests: featureRequest, featureRequestVote

#Meta Operations
schema - Schema introspection
version - API version
currentGrant - Current user permissions
signQuery - Query signing for security


=====================================================================
PRACTICAL NOTES (learned while building the Gentry water-treatment automation)
=====================================================================

#Budget vs. Document data model (IMPORTANT)
The "Budget" shown in the JobTread UI and a Document (proposal/estimate) are TWO
SEPARATE sets of cost groups/items, linked at the item level:
- Budget line items   = costGroup/costItem with job set and document = null.
                        These are what show in the job's Budget tab.
- Document line items  = costGroup/costItem with BOTH job and document set. They are
                        separate copies that mirror the budget tree.
- The link            = each DOCUMENT costItem has jobCostItem -> the corresponding
                        BUDGET costItem (input field: jobCostItemId). This is how the
                        system counts them once: "estimated price" comes from the
                        budget, "approved price" comes from the (approved) document.
- includeInBudget (on document) = a financial-tracking flag meaning the document's
                        line items participate in the job's budget totals. It is NOT
                        the thing that builds the line-item budget. The frontend
                        "create document from budget" flow sets it True.
- Catalog masters     = both budget and document items keep organizationCostItem
                        pointing at the catalog/master cost item (organizationCostItemId).
- There is NO jobCostGroupId; only ITEMS carry the budget link. Groups are just
                        structural copies (cost group selection settings/files copy over).

#How to "create budget from template" then "create document from budget"
There is no single instant copy call; it's read-then-resubmit (same pattern as
copying a catalog template into a document):
1. Build budget: createCostGroup with jobId (NOT documentId). createCostGroup accepts
   nested lineItems (newCostGroup/newCostItem) AND files, so a whole package tree is
   built in one mutation. These groups have document = null -> appear in Budget tab.
2. Create document from budget: query the budget tree back, then createDocument with
   lineItems mirroring it, where each newCostItem sets jobCostItemId = the budget
   item's id. Set includeInBudget = true.
(See jobtread.py: create_budget_from_packages + create_document_from_template.)

#Payment schedule (deposit / progress / final invoices)
- A document template's payment schedule lives in documentTemplate.scheduledDocuments
  (entity: documentTemplateScheduledDocument) with fields: name, amount, percentage,
  sendOnCreation, createFromDocumentTemplate{id}, position.
- percentage is a FRACTION <= 1 (0.3 = 30%); amount is a fixed dollar value. One row
  uses one or the other (often the final/balance row has neither).
- Copy onto createDocument via the scheduledDocuments[] input (max 20): name, amount,
  percentage, sendOnCreation, createFromDocumentTemplateId. Also pass
  showScheduledDocuments. On a created document they surface as
  document.scheduledDocuments (entity: scheduledDocument; also has createdDocument).

#Pave query gotchas (status 400 unless you do these)
- size must go INSIDE the "$" object, and max size is 100.
- You CANNOT compare a field to null in where ({"=":[{"field":...}, null]} is rejected
  with "A non-null value is required"). Fetch rows and filter client-side instead
  (e.g. to find budget groups: query all job costGroups, keep document == null).
- Status 413 "Request Entity Too Large" means the RESPONSE is too big -> split into
  several smaller queries / request fewer fields, rather than one big nested query.
- deleteCostGroup returns "You don't have permission to delete this cost group" while
  a document still links to it via jobCostItem. Delete the document first, then the
  budget cost group is deletable.

#Auth / client
jobtread.py wraps everything: JobTreadClient() reads GRANT_KEY from .env;
client.query(<pave dict>) is the low-level escape hatch for raw read/write queries.